We did quite a lot of subjects at school.
They were: Physics, Mathematics, Biology, Russian Literature, Chemistry, English, History of this country and many other subjects. 
It was rather difficult to go to school when a school-leaver, we had so much to do. 
I know that all the subjects are important and they all must be payed much attention to, but still I didn't like exact sciences. 
I spent much time on doing them at home. 
However hard I tried, all those formulas and definitions were 
mixed up in my head and I couldn't make it out after all.
So I had nothing to do but sit for two or three hours swotting Physics, Chemistry and Maths. 
My favourite subjects were Literature, History, English.
Most of all I liked English. 
I read English books, tried to translate some stories from newspapers from English into Russian and vice versa. 
I had some English handbooks and they were of great help to me when I studied English Grammar and did some exercises.
At our English lessons we read quite a lot of dull texts from our textbooks. 
But in my view, written texts and textbooks are not important.
The best way to improve your language skills and habits is to work at a language laboratory. 
But there was no good language laboratory at our school. 
And I spent plenty of time at home listening to the tapes, imitating the sounds and intonations of the native speakers of English. 
I was working hard at my pronunciation because my teacher said that it was my weak point. 
Sometimes I spoke English with my friends after classes and they said I was making good progress in the language. 
I decided to take my entrance exams to the Institute because I want to know English. 
Nowadays, it's impossible to do without foreign languages because of expanding economic, cultural ties of this country with other countries of the world. 
Besides, one can't be a learned and well-educated person if he doesn't know at least one foreign language. 
As for me, I'd like to read English and American Literature, to understand it without resorting to anybody's help.